after helping dozens of B2B SAS and
service companies scale with SEO the
reason so many don't get results from
SEO is they lack the basics in order to
rank consistently you need a solid
onpage SEO strategy in this video I'm
going to share the exact checklist we
use for breaking B2B clients across
content and Technical so you can follow
along and start ranking your website top
of organic search to drive a steady flow
of pipeline leads and Revenue let's dive
in let's kick it off with technical SEO
now sadly a lot of SAS and B2B service
companies get sucked in thinking they
need to do month-long audits mess around
with things like image Al tags and
Beyond when a lot of that is a waste of
time as long as you na the technical SEO
Basics you're going to be just fine then
you want to dedicate most of your time
to building Revenue driving content and
earning solid backlink so you can
actually rank top of Google and drive
leads and revenue now one of the first
things when it comes to technical SEO is
you want to make sure you're building
out pages so you can start ranking for
each and every keyword or topic that
your dream clients are going to search
for when they need your offer so that
could be like main industry Pages main
solution Pages comparison and
alternative Pages it could be articles
that you want to rank for main problems
and jobs to be done that your dream
clients are searching for when they have
issues that you solve and Beyond so
thinking what all these angles that are
dream clients could be searching for
when they have a good level of sales
intent to book a demo take a sign up or
speak to sales and let's look to create
best-in-class Pages for these now diving
into the technical detail I'm firing up
my screen if you're watching here so for
one of our clients called cortex Tech we
recently ranked them organic search
number one for best fan engagement
platforms so first and foremost once
you've assigned your target keyword to
our Target keyword is best fan
engagement platforms you want to make
sure that is within your meta title and
description so as an example here
they've got the best the five best fan
engagement platforms for sports
organizations if we go into their detail
page article first thing is within your
target URL you want yourdomain.com SL
and then your focus keyword so there's
is cortex. for SL then they've got the
news but your could be/ blog and then
they've got SL the main focus keyword so
SLB hyphen fan hyphen engagement
platforms so each space in the keyword
is separated by hyphen so yours would be
yourdomain.com for SL your focus keyword
with hyphens to separate any spaces in
the keyword next up on the technical
side of things you want to make sure
that your website is loading quick so
there's a great tool called Google page
speed insights so you can quickly copy
and paste your website URL you can see
how quickly it loads on mobile and PC
View and I recommend aiming for 2
seconds or less in terms of page speed
you also want to make sure that your
website works nice and quickly and
smoothly across mobile desktop and PC so
if you fire up your website on Google
Chrome you can press F12 and you can
quickly toggle between different mobile
and desktop views and tablet views to
make sure your website looks great works
smoothly and is easy to navigate another
added bonus is I recommend a sticky menu
nav so even when you scroll on mobile or
PC your Top Line nav is easy to navigate
for your main navigation pages so it's
always stuck to the top on mobile and PC
and also your main cool to action to
grab a demo trial book a cool whatever
it is so next up you want your main
focus key word within your H1 within
your heading one tag you only want one
heading one tag per page so in this case
we want to rank for best fan engagement
platform our H1 is the five best fan
engagement platforms for sports
organizations and typically in this top
hero area this top Banner era you have a
title and you might have your author
there as well and then you have a nice
hero image that sums up what the page is
about and then the other thing that
works really nicely for Pages like this
so if you're building out an article
page in this case is evaluating the top
five softwares in the category on the
fixed either fixed on the left side or
the right side you might have a lead
magnet so depending on the funnel St P
of the article this is quite a bottom of
funnel article is someone searching
directly for best fan engagement
platforms or software so we've got an
option to sign up for that email
newsletter but you might have something
like grab a free trial or take a demo or
something similar so no matter where
someone Scrolls on the article they can
easily grab that conversion point they
can easily sign up take a demo or grab a
newsletter the next thing is in terms of
the actual structure of the page you
want to make sure it's enjoyable for
folks to navigate no one wants to land
on a Blog article or a landing page or
whatever type of page it is and scroll
through the wall of text it needs to be
skimmable on mobile view and on PC view
so each section should be broken up by
heading tags like H2S or h3s so it's
nice and easy to navigate and likewise
bullet points and weave in images gifs
screenshots show your product or your
offer an action maybe you weave in some
client testimonials and videos and all
that good stuff so it's not just a wall
of text it's well separated with heading
tags and it's easy and enjoyable to
navigate both on mobile and your PC and
the next thing is you want some internal
links so nice ni way especially if
you're publishing a new page to get
Google to call it perhaps a bit faster
and earn something called topical
Authority so you can earn more expertise
get a bit more ranking on a certain
topic you're trying to rank for is
within each page link out to relevant
other pages on the topic on your site
and likewise have those other Pages
internally link back to this new page
that you're publishing so that's some of
the key points when it comes to
technical SEO make sure your focus
keyword is within your meta title and
description make sure it's within your
url make sure it's within your heading
one time make sure the page is
structured nicely and easy to navigate
make sure you've got a page built for
all your main offers service Industries
problems you solve and more make sure
the website structured in an easy to
view way make sure it loads fast and
make sure it's easy to view on mobile
tablet and PC just put yourself in your
dream client's shoes you don't want to
land on a wall of text landing page
article whatever type of page is you
want to make it an enjoyable experience
you want to quickly get the information
that you need and be able to convert
take a demo sign up whatever that
conversion point is moving on to the
content side of things for our onpage
SEO checklist there's two main things
you want to keep top of mind the first
is what type of page do we need to build
out to rank for our Focus keyword
secondly how can we make this page the
best possible on the internet for the
topic so Google rolled out framework
sometime back called eat experience
expertise Authority trust we're going to
break that down in a bit more depth but
first off I encourage you to type in
your focus keyword on Google so quite
literally type in your main keyword you
want to rank for in this case I've typed
in best fan engagement platforms and the
reason we're doing this is we want to
assess the user intent assess the intent
of the page to understand what type of
page Google favors for this keyword is
it a landing page is it an article is it
a product list school or comparison or
something completely different in this
case with best fan engagement platforms
we can see that most of them are product
lisal articles like the five best
Solutions of 2025 or the 10 best they're
all quite similar so in this case we
know we need to build that type of page
that's what Google favors that's the
type of page we need to build to rank
effectively for this keyword so assess
the top three four organic pages and
then you'll know what type of page you
need to rank in your case it could be a
landing page or it could be something
else this is actually where we managed
to rank cortex techio organic page 1
recently for this Focus keyword so let's
dive in we'll click through to the top
three or four pages we'll look quickly
at things like their word count this
isn't the b or and Endor but it's useful
to know you can use a tool like SEO Pro
extension and you can quickly understand
how many words they've got I'd always
use a blow out the water strategy I
don't want to revisit the page in a
couple months on a nail it from day one
so I'd ramp up the word count to be safe
and also if I was doing an article in
this case a product lisal article if the
top ranking page was the top five I'd
probably double it and do the top 10
just so I can show Google that my page
is more helpful and useful but on that
vein we always this is a tip to get
ahead of your competitors always put
yourself in your dream client's shoes if
someone's landing on your website for
the first time they are skeptical they
might not trust you yet so this is why
you want to leverage subject matter
expertise from your own team as well as
leveraging customer interviews from your
own customers and Prospects to really
show that you know their world you
understand their pain points their
expensive problems the impact of not
fixing those problems you understand how
to position your product or your offer
as the solution as a painkiller to those
problems and throughout the article the
landing page whatever it is you're
showing that you know the words they use
the jargon they use you know those
problems and you're well equipped to
sort that and you're sharing examples of
fixing those problems maybe that's
customer testimonials client quotes
review videos plus you're using this
page as a sales page even it's an
article if it's a landing page doesn't
matter you're showing screenshots or
examples of your product or your offer
an action maybe you've got a gift of
where your product kicks into play or
maybe you're just weaving in examples of
your offer that's something that so many
SAS and B2B companies neglect they just
have Wall of text blogs or landing pages
that folks land on and bounce straight
away and really want to use it a sales
page P you want to weave in how your
product is equipped to fix their
problems or get those jobs done for your
dream clients so if I look at an article
re recently done for check writers one
of our clients see straight away at the
top of the article we're looking to rank
this article for ADP Alternatives we've
done the top 10 ADP Alternatives check
writers for context provide their assass
tool they provide HR and payroll
software so as a trust signal straight
away to Google we've got the author of
the article at top of the page with an
image got his name toota Herbert so then
a date of publishing we also do a quick
summary and why listen to us this seems
to help with not only building trust
with prospects also getting picked up by
AI search tools like Google's AI
overviews chat GPT search It's The quick
summary and why listen to us and you'll
see as I scroll through if you're
watching we've weaved in things like
Brands they've worked with customer
quotes and such and we start with as
this is a comparison article what is ADP
the limitations and then we position
their offer so check writers is number
one screenshots of the product and
action the main differentiators you
could have a comparison table of you
versus your main competitor and where
you stand out based on your customer
research and what dream clients care
about showing why why are you the main
features folks care about in this case
pricing Pros cons and then a fair
comparison of the other competitors so
that's a quick idea of an article side
of things but really want to reinforce
that you want to leverage those customer
insights because there's there's going
to be so many competitors fighting to
get organic position one the way you're
going to stand out is not only to rank
well following SEO best practices on
your technical side of things We've ran
through but also really showing you
understand your dream clients World
their problems and their jobs be done so
if we look now at a landing page this is
one we did recently for the B2B
playbook.com to rank for demand
generation course and demand gen course
we use a framework called Pas problem
agitation solution so show you no dream
client's problem agitate a bit annoy
them a bit show the impact of it and
then position your office the solution
so they've done a really great job here
I mean on landing pages there's some
nice best practices that you can do on
the content you can weave in YouTube
videos on the topic gives you a bit of a
boost they've leveraged plenty of social
proof with client reviews with the
client's photos five star review and
then sharing why they chose to work with
them and then they go straight into the
struggling moments so are you struggling
with driving leads and revenue with
demand generation then you've got a
checklist you struggling with this if
you got frustration with this and
they've got a nice graphic and then as
you scroll a bit further down it says
start focusing on Revenue as opposed to
driving leads your the maner and again
they got some they're talking about the
problem with the way that the prospects
getting the world or getting the job
done right now so what's wrong with
doing it this way what's wrong with
focusing on lead gen this is the impact
this is why you should consider focusing
on demand gen and then they've got a
nice comparison table this is life
without us this is life with our course
as they go down they're positioning
their training product as the solution
they've got screenshots they've got a
breakdown of what's included again
talking about the bonuses talking about
the features talking about everything
within it some more examples some more
reasons to work with them some more
social proof so client reviews
testimonials all that good stuff
breaking down a bit more clear call to
actions as you scroll it's making it
nice and easy for folks to sign up or
take that next step and then a bit of a
superpower I love to weave in for
landing pages is FAQs so this gives you
a bit of an SEO Bo boost but also helps
with sales enablement and speed up sales
cycles and to build trust so if you can
leverage FAQs not just generic FAQs like
every company has like what is this or
how does this work but take those juicy
objections from sales schols like why
should I trust you why shouldn't I work
with your competitor what's your refund
policy how long does it take to see
results all that is really almost an
annoying level juicy questions and
problems that you're going to get cuz if
folks see this on your page they're
going to think wow this company actually
cares about what I want to know they
sound trustworthy they're addressing
this headon it's going to save your team
time on sales calls and make folks more
likely to take that next step and
convert with you and there you have it
there's the exact on page SEO checklist
we go through with our clients but as
you probably know there's a lot more
when it comes to nailing a revenue
driving SEO strategy for your B2B SAS or
Service Company on page SEO is simply
one piece of the puzzle if you want to
nail your SEO and start driving a steady
stream of leads Pipeline and Revenue why
not book a call with us over at breaking
bb.com where we can go through exactly
where you are right now and where you'd
like to get to with an SEO program and
see if we're a good fit to help you
that's breaking bb.com or click the link
in the description below or if you're
not ready yet why not check out our
weekday newsletter or check out the
breaking B2B podcast for more B2B SEO
tips and advice and with that I'll catch
you on the next one cheers